if the xigmatek dark night night hawk
edition the exact model number is SD
1283 now this is a large unit it's not
the biggest unit of ever seen but it is
large and it's got some interesting
things going on like ceramic coating all
over the aluminum alloy fins and also as
hdt y'all that's heat pipe direct touch
technology the copper pipes that are on
this thing they make direct contact with
the CPU and they are also coated in
ceramic except for the bottom where
there's copper if you really want to get
the best use out of this you're going to
want to lap the copper on the bottom
just to make sure it's not oxidizing or
anything like that but the copper is
still going to be much better than just
aluminum for the bottom it'll help you
dissipate that heat now let's talk about
the stealth technology that's their low
heat signature ceramic coating and what
they're saying is that it allows you to
more efficiently dissipate the heat and
it also stays pretty cool to the touch I
notice while it was turned on i'm an
idiot i always put my hands on things
while they're on like hey let's see but
you could put your hands on and it
didn't feel that warm at all so it was
dissipating the heat but it wasn't
retaining the heat and that's a nice
thing that'll allow you to dissipate
heat more quickly first off let's go
through the specs on this unit the
dimensions are in millimeters 120 x 120
x 25 now this fan speed is 1,000 to
2,200 RPM and one thing i want to note
about the fan is there's a really cool
LED thing that's going on i usually
don't like leds but this one looks
pretty cool there's like a pattern and
so when you have it turn on spending you
can see there the pattern is pretty
interesting airflow is 80 9.45 cubic
feet per minute life expectancy is
50,000 hours and the noise level is 30.1
decibels and the weight of the heatsink
only the thermal mass is 406 grams we
had we test the temperature with this
thing I actually hang it right in front
of the fan about 3 or 4 inches in front
of the fan just so we can test the
temperature that's going into the
heatsink so we use this thing make sure
that it was exactly 70 degrees we're in
a climate-controlled room and yeah did
all benchmarks make sure everything was
even all the way across now the Dark
Knight is a more expensive cooling unit
than some of the others they've been
taking it so if you're going this way
you probably want to use some fancy
thermal paste and that's how I tested it
we use technique thermal paste we do not
use the stock kernel paste even though
it looks different than the thermal
paste it comes with the Gaia and some of
the other xigmatek units it's more of a
silver color instead of the white color
so it might be a bit better but
even then tested it with the good stuff
but Annique tested this with an intel i5
3570k and we tested it at the stock
clock and then we ramped up the heat by
overclocking it to 4.5 gigahertz and we
tested it at that to see how it
dissipates the extra heat we did these
tests with one fan and with a second fan
so here are the results The Dark Knight
one fan just idling in Windows 27
degrees celsius at full load 49 degrees
celsius and the h100 we have 30 degrees
in Windows and then with full load 47
degrees Celsius so at the stock it's
like almost the same performance as the
h100 with the overclock in Windows is
still 27 degrees and the H 130 degrees
so i guess the h1 hundreds fans weren't
ramping up that much didn't really need
to and we're running h100 on the full
performance mode as well right
overclocked to 4.5 gigahertz the dark
knight with one fan was 61 degrees
celsius after five or six minutes at
full load and the h100 was 62 degrees so
very impressed there all right let's
talk about duel fans because that's
where you really get the performance it
does add a little bit of noise but not
that much now with two fans idling in
windows at the stock clock 25 degrees
celsius at full load 48 degrees celsius
with the overclock still idles at 25
degrees and at full load after five or
six minutes 58 degrees celsius so you
can see here versus the h100 this is
actually running a little bit cooler and
that's gonna make a lot of people angry
and they're probably gonna you know
contest my results in the yell and
scream and that sort of thing one thing
i did do to make the age 100 a little
more efficient was i did take the unit
and lap it and it means i used some
laughing paper and sanded the bottom of
the unit and i'm not going to get into
those results in this benchmark but that
did make it perform better than the Dark
Knight but I did have to lap it to get
it to perform better than the dark
knight out of the box the way most
people are going to be using it the dark
knight did perform better so for less
money I'm going to be using this one in
fact my h100 just just kind of exploded
the other day these things uh we don't
have the h100i just or the h1 10
they just yeah the reheater it's
terrible so this one's going to be the
one I'm going to be using on all my test
benches for now on or until I get you
know some ridiculous water cooling kit
but this is going to go on the test
bench and we're going to be using this
thing because it's decent performance so
I'd only have much negative to say about
the build quality was top-notch defense
felt I guess they didn't feel as good as
some units but I mean it's still going
to last several years I like the rubber
that you're going to be using to mount
these with that makes me happy it's you
know low noise and reduces vibrations so
trying to think of something I do not
like about this I don't know if you
don't like LEDs then there's that you
got a fluid fluid bearing fan that's
decent it's just a decent unit for a
really decent price
you